The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker

"This is but one of the legends of which the people speak..."
— Prologue

The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker Zeruda no Densetsu Kaze no Takuto?, "The Legend of Zelda: Baton of Wind") is the tenth installment in the Legend of Zelda series, notable for its use of cel-shaded animation and sailing. It was released for the Nintendo GameCube in Japan on December 13, 2002, in Canada and the United States on March 24, 2003, in Europe on May 3, 2003 and in Australia on May 7, 2003. It is a sequel set hundreds of years after The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time in the "Adult Link" Timeline . The game would spawn two sequels: The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the Nintendo DS, being a direct sequel to The Wind Waker, and The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks, set a century after the events of The Wind Waker.
The game is set on a group of islands in a vast sea called the Great Sea — a first for the series. The player controls Link, the protagonist of the Zelda series. He struggles against the returning Ganondorf for control of a sacred relic known as the Triforce. Link spends a significant portion of the game sailing, traveling between islands, and traversing through dungeons and temples to gain the power necessary to defeat Ganondorf, and to rescue his kidnapped younger sister named Aryll.

The Wind Waker follows in the footsteps of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, retaining the basic gameplay and control system from the Nintendo 64 title. A heavy emphasis is placed on using and controlling wind with a baton called the Wind Waker, which aids sailing and floating through air. Critics enjoyed the similarity to Ocarina of Time, but often complained about the tedium that the large amount of time spent on sailing became. Despite this, the game has met commercial and critical success and is the fourth of only eighteen games that have received a perfect score from Famitsu magazine.

On January 23, 2013, Nintendo officially announced a re-release of The Wind Waker for the Wii U as part of a Nintendo Direct presentation.[1] The port includes updated high-definition visuals, integration with Miiverse, and full compatibility with the Wii U GamePad, including Off TV Play.

Source: Zelda Wikia. http://zelda.wikia.com/wiki/The_Legend_of_Zelda:_The_Wind_Waker

